So we talked about
higher-order components.
High-order components are just a pattern
in React that you might be familiar with.
Particularly in larger codebases they
will kind of take common pieces of
state management and
pass them into components.
Some of this you can do
these days with hooks.
Hooks and higher-order components
aren't mutually exclusive.
I use hooks and
higher order together because it
allows you were separated the data and
state management piece of your component
with the presentational piece.
You have a hook in your component and
you want to unit test,
well all of a sudden you've got to mark
out a bunch of stuff if it's common APIs.
And you'll have to figure out how to
simulate all the things versus you pull
that out into a hardware component
that does maybe the API fetching,
all that kind of stuff, passes props
into a presentation component.
Easier to test, easier to tune for
performance if you want to memorize
certain props so on and so forth.
It's also a really fantastic way for
us to get a little bit more familiar
with kind of some advanced patterns
using TypeScript and React.
So we're going to take one of
the examples from earlier and
we're going to create a super simple
higher-order component around it.
Just to kind of see the pattern in
practice and then learn a few things about
how to do some of this dynamic typing
with TypeScript around React components.
So we're gonna look at those
character cards that we saw earlier.
And a higher-order component just wraps
a traditional point and takes some of
the stuff you might have done with
the hooks in state management and
passes it into that presentational
component with props.
So if we look over back
into our character card,
go into application over here.
We're gonna kind of take this piece out,
and
we're gonna be able to kind of pass
it in to the application component,
or the character information
card component rather.
And push all of that in and
be able to use that instead.
So what we're gonna do is we're
gonna create a component.
The pattern is to call it with character,
or
with whatever the data you're passing in.
So if it is a component that
needs the current user, cuz so
many things need the current
user from what you display for
log in log out to like whether they
have the permission to view a thing.
It'll be like with current user,
with user or something along those lines.
For this one, we're gonna take the random
character, and we're gonna use that, so
we're gonna call this one with character.
And there are some pieces of higher-order
components that we are gonna kind of like
just brush over a little bit.
Because it's more like the kind of nuances
of making sure the display name looks in
your React tools correctly.
And that's kind of tangential to the part
we are trying to focus on which are these
TypeScript patterns.
So we have this const with character and
we'll just do a naively simple version,
it's gonna take some React
component as an argument.
And we'll give it a type of any for now.
We'll obviously fix that, but just to
kind of get the basic pattern in place.
So it takes any and its gonna
immediately just return that component.
Obviously this is not the best
higher-order component in the world, but
we'll get there.
And then, so if we wanted to kind
of have a version of a character
information card that just
had all the data passed in,
we might say something along the lines of
constCharacterInformationWithCharacter,
right?
Just simulating that is the combination of
our character information component and
with character higher-order
component as well.
And all that will be is
this with character and
we'll pass in the character
information component, right?
Right now, that doesn't really do much
since it's just basically a pass through.
It's actually worse than what we
had before at this exact moment,
because the hierarchical
component has the type any and
it's not actually passing anything
through but we'll fix that.
And then we're just gonna
kind of swap it in here.
And TypeScript's gonna get angry with us,
but like I said,
we will address that in due time.
We'll say that's gonna,
it won't even need the character
because that's gonna be passed in.
So there it is.
If we threw character in here right now,
TypeScript would now be angry,
even though this is
a pass through component.
Because it's like,
I don't know what that prop is, right?
So we've got that, and
now we need to flesh out the rest of this.
Which is what a hierarchy component
should do is it takes a component and
returns that component with some of
the props passed in already on our behalf.
So the first thing that this
is really gonna need to do,
we'll kind of comment this line out for a
second, is it will return a new component.
Which again, in React these days is
effectively just a function, right?
Back in the day when you walked up hills
both ways to build a React application,
you might have put a class inside of this
function, that extended React component.
So we'll return a function and
that one is we're gonna
start to pull up some of our
kind of pieces from up here.
So we can for instance,
pull these pieces up.
All the state management pieces are gonna
get pulled up, so even the fetching part.
And so now if we wanted to reuse this,
we can wrap any component in with
character and we would get all of the kind
of loading and the character itself,
and the fetching and
all of those things as a part of the deal.
And we can say, let's go ahead and
I'm gonna fork this real quick actually,
we'll just save it.
So we get some formatting and right now
things are a little sad with us, but
we can fix that.
I gotta move some stuff around as well.
This goes inside of the component, great.
And then we'll say, If loading is true,
we can just return null or
we can return the loading component.
And otherwise return whatever component
we passed in with the character.
All right, so now we can create all
sorts of different components that will
automatically show loading component.
If they're loading to
automatically fetch the character,
they'll pass it into whatever
component we choose to wrap, great.
And there we go, so
TypeScript is a little angry right now,
saying it's any it's never read.
Yeah, that's all true at this moment,
we will get that kind of
all working as we go along.
And that we can use that
basically solely put this in here.
We don't need the rest of this,
this is all being handled by our
higher-order component, awesome.
Right, so we've got that in place,
now we need to actually flush out
the rest of the higher-order component.
Now, we talked about generics before.
Since this can wrap any component,
that giant asterisk that
I'll talk about in a second.
A higher-order component traditionally in
regular React, can wrap any component and
pass that stuff in as a prop.
However, one of the promises
of TypeScript for us,
is the idea that we want to make sure that
maybe the component that we're wrapping
accepts in this case a character, right?
So really it is not just any component
will be a regular JavaScript we wanna
make this a little bit better.
We wanna say that this with character
will take any component that
takes a character prop, it will be the one
that passes that in for us, right?
And then we wanna return a component that
maybe takes all of the props it originally
took minus the character component.
So if you think about those utility
tests we talked about earlier,
we have roughly all of the pieces
that we need to do this.
We just kinda need to like tie a bunch
of the stuff we learned together.
So this sounds like the kind of job for
a generic.
So we could say with character, in this
case we'll say T, and one of the things
I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna switch
this to a functional component.
One of the reasons is,
the compiler is somewhat confused
by this otherwise fine TypeScript syntax.
The reason for that is, since we
are writing JSX, it is really hard for
the parser to figure out whether or
not we are saying const with character.
And parse is going along sees equal,
sees open angle brackets like
you're gonna write some JSX and
then it gets very confused.
One of the ways to handle this is
if you put a comma here, then boy,
that must be a TypeScript generic and
not a React JSX component.
I don't really like that.
And if you decide that
you're cool with this comma,
you're gonna find that certain
formatters are gonna fight with you.
Prettier is gonna be like,
what's that comma?
I'm gonna take that comma out for you.
And then the TypeScript JSX
parser is gonna be like,
I don't know what's going on anymore.
So even if you like arrow functions,
one of my recommendations here is just to,
when it approves you,
to get more traditional function
declaration like this,
a function declaration.
So we've got this generic and
now we can say that
the component should be
a React component type,
that is based on T.
And we saw that before when we
did that utility types exercise,
React.componentType will go and
find out the props of a given
React component that you pass in.
And so we saw that before when
we use it with the current user
in the previous example.
And we also saw that these
functions will be pretty smart.
So what happens is,
you're gonna pass in a component
as the argument to with character.
It's gonna look at that component,
use the utility type of react.component
to figure out its props, and
assume that we're gonna use a component
to define T in the rest of this.
So then, really, we return a new component
that takes the same props, right?
So here we are reading the props
of whatever component we pass in,
and we're returning a new component that
takes the same props for now, right?
So we've got that in place, and you can
see TypeScript has started to get a little
a bit upset, it doesn't really know
much about component just yet.
Here we're saying, you told me it took the
same props, where's my character, right?
And we know in a higher component that
like, listen, we're gonna give you
a character you don't actually need
to take a character prop anymore.
However, this component could take
other props that we wanna pass through.
So the mission we need to solve for is,
we need to return a component that takes
all of the props that it originally took.,
minus or omitting, the ones that
we know we're going to pass in.
So we need to figure that out.
This is totally at this point,
a TypeScript problem,
that we effectively have
the higher-order component in place.
So we can figure out, okay for
the higher order component,
what are the props that it defines.
Now in this case,
it's just character, right?
If it was just going to be current user,
but maybe other things got passed in or
something along those lines.
But here we know that whatever component
comes out of the with character
higher-order component,
it's gonna have a character type.
So here we'll say character,
CharacterType.
And there we've got that.
So now we've got this type here and so
what we wanna do is we wanna
return a new component here.
That is, like I said before, all of the
props that originally took, minus the ones
that we know we're passing in ourselves
from this higher-order component, right?
And so we saw this before,
this is using our good friend,
the omit utility type that we
played around with before.
So here we'll actually say,
this is omit from the type of
the component we passed in,
all of the keys of with character props,
right?
I got close that.
So this is our new, we're basically
reading the props of whatever
component gets passed in and
dynamically generating a new prop type.
That is, again, everything that it
originally took minus the stuff that
we know we're passing in, right?
And these are the things where I think
when I was learning TypeScript and React,
I was like, TypeScript must be
bad cuz this stuff is hard,
because I didn't really
understand the stuff at the time.
And then as you kinda dig into,
you realize that you can do most of
the functional programming things,
most of the kind of normal React patterns.
You just need to have that kind of
both understanding React, obviously,
understanding of some of
the basics of TypeScript.
But then also understanding the things
that come with React's types, right?
And that's one of the things
where the stuff isn't really
covered super well all the time.
You can find a really
great tutorials on React,
really great tutorials on TypeScript.
The intersection is a little,
sometimes there's not as much in there.
So we don't have everything we need.
We've solved for the red squiggly lines,
cuz it's no longer expecting that there's
a character type passed in there.
Because pick is the opposite of omit, and
so we have effectively, if this thing took
additional props like we pass in, we can
redefine it in a second if we wanted to.
But this is happy, but
now this one's angry because it
doesn't really understand what's
going on here with component.
So we can fix that as well, because it's
like okay, you said maybe this takes other
props, TypeScript doesn't know because
we're using with character information.
This higher-order component,
can be working with any,
at this point, any prop or
any component that takes a character prop.
So it's like, yeah,
you might use this other places,
I can't guarantee you that safety.
And so that's problematic for
me, and that makes sense.
And so we just need to solve for
that as well.
So we're gonna say we're gonna pass in.
So normally we can say, for all of
the other props to go in there, right?
But we need to say, Props as T,
so we're saying hey,
here are the props you expect.
But remember we had to use that as
keyword before, to effectively say,
I know the character is not we're
gonna pass character right next to it.
So we're gonna say listen,
the rest of the props that
are coming in here are totally fine.
We're gonna pass in character, and you can
now see that all the rest of the props
this component will take, or any component
wrapped in this higher-order component,
will get all of its props,
will pass in character as well.
The other kind of thing that we can do
here is just to verify that this works.
We can go ahead and take a look when you
say something along the lines of like,
okay what if I give you this a character?
You can see already, no, it doesn't take
this anymore does not exist on this type.
So, now we have a new component which
dynamically no longer takes the character,
even though it'll take everything
else this component took.
All right, and so
this is a powerful pattern for one,
see how these utility types you
can dynamically create types.
Two, just see how you can separate
the state management from your React
component.
Now you can use the same
functionality everywhere.
Yeah, you could possibly also load this
into a hook, but then you'd have to figure
out how you're loading component and
stuff along those lines.
It's still an important pattern, but
using some of those techniques of both
reading the props of another
component right here.
Being able to dynamically generate
a new type based on that,
and then the ability to
kind of say we know what
we're doing with some of these things
to help TypeScript along the way.
Because we are very
intentional about this.
Can you use as, as a hack?
Of course you can.
Should you?
No.
And so it's one of those things.
But when you need to inform
TypeScript that you roughly know what
you're doing,
this will allow you to get a sense of,
I know I'm going to pass it in
directly two characters over.
And it will be all the things
that this component expects.